# Thesis SM60
Yunan Zhao


## Goal of the project:
This is the GitHub Repository for SM 60 Thesis in Biostatistics. This project aims to investigate the trend in Unhealthy Weight Control Behaviors (UWCBs) over past decades and the association between UWCBs and other risk behaviors among teenagers are important to examining potential issues during adolescence and the transition to young adulthood. The current study used Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS) data from 1999 to 2013, including 8 cleaned data sets, and monitoring six categories of health-related behaviors. In order to analyze the association between UWCBs with other events, multinomial logistic models were fit to the dataset.

## Instructions: 
1. Look at Rmd and html files `260finalproj.Rmd`, `260finalproj.html`
2. Run our Shiny app `app1211.R`


## Data files:
Our files are over the github limits. Thus we put our dataset on Google Drive:
1) train.csv - https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1IdbfP-L2bNtFNzDnuhXLIO_3DtynJxRG
2) test.csv - https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1IdbfP-L2bNtFNzDnuhXLIO_3DtynJxRG
3) revenue_us.csv - https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1IdbfP-L2bNtFNzDnuhXLIO_3DtynJxRG


Our Website can be found [here]（https://sites.google.com/brandeis.edu/bst260-group16).

Our screencase can be found [here] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=edGueAvrOQk) .


This project could be divided up into four main parts, i.e., Data Wrangling, R shiny, regression, and machine learning. 

### Data Wrangling
In data wrangling, main parts could be summarized as 1) transforming non-standard format data (JSON) into standard data, 2) deal with missing values.

### R Shiny
Our Shiny App can be divided into 2 parts: 1) Seeing 3 different measurements' (Pageviews/Revenue/Hits) distribution around the world on selected day. 2) The relationship between revenue v.s. users' visit number in different countries.

### Regression
Here we make statistical model about customers’ revenue. The main question is that whether there exist relationship between the number of customer accessing hits and the amount of revenue generated by the customer. 

### Machine Learning
Here we play with two types of machine learning, one being bagging based Random Forest, another one being boosting based XGBoost. Bagging and Boosting have different mechanisms, and given large percentage of categorical variables in our dataset, we are hoping to have a better comparison of model performances by applying that into the dataset.
